# HouseSalesPrice-project
Welcome! The code, analysis, and resulting documentation in this repository detail my attempt at the Kaggle competition titled House Prices: Advanced Regression Techniques (https://www.kaggle.com/c/house-prices-advanced-regression-techniques). It was also overall my first attempt at a data science project from end to end, and was my first time using Kaggle. This project was conducted for my Technology Fundamentals for Business Analytics class project in Fall 2017.

## Goals
The goals of this project was to get myself accustomed to the process of executing a data science project from data understanding, to cleaning, exploratory data analysis, and modelling. I really wanted to be able to finish this project with a good level of "data science literacy". What I mean by this is, not necessarily knowing all of the models, packages, and go to tactics for handling messy data, but at least coming out of the project with the ability to understand others' approaches and the ability to understand and do quick study on data science jargon that I would not necessarily know about.

## Major Takeaways
This was a good starter project to get my feet into the water. My major takeways include learning about a lot of the foundational data exploration techniques and thought processes that are needed to iterate through data science projects (i.e. what to do with missing variables, what to do about categorical variables, do certain fields make sense to include in modelling, etc.), and also learning how to understand notebooks written by community peers on the Kaggle platform. The platform itself is really open source and fosters a great space for learning, which definitely increased my appreciation of the science. 
